<div style="text-align: center;">Stage 2: Decoder Refinement. In the second stage, we shift our focus to refining the fidelity of the generated images. We freeze the parameters of the pre-trained encoder to preserve the learned semantic representations and exclusively fine-tune the decoder. In this phase, the distillation objective is discarded. Instead, we incorporate adversarial training (GAN loss) alongside the reconstruction loss to enhance perceptual quality. The learning rate is reduced to, and the training proceeds for an additional 100k iterations.</div>


HYDRA training proceeds through a progressive three-stage curriculum, with specific hyperparameters detailed in Tab. 6. Across all three stages, we maintain a constant input image resolution of  $ 448 \times 448 $ and a global batch size of 1024. We employ varying learning rates (LRs) tailored to different model components and training phases. In Stage I, the Vision Head and Sem-ViT are trained with LRs of  $ 10^{-4} $ and  $ 5 \times 10^{-5} $, respectively. Progressing to Stages II and III, the Vision Head LR is reduced to  $ 5 \times 10^{-5} $, while the LLM and Sem-ViT are trained jointly at a lower rate of  $ 2 \times 10^{-5} $. The training strategy also involves shifting data mixing ratios and durations: Stage I utilizes a data ratio of 0:1:3 for 150K steps; Stage II adjusts the ratio to 0:2:2 for 100K steps; and Stage III concludes with a ratio of 1:2:2 for 20K steps.

<div style="text-align: center;">Table 6. Training details of our HYDRA.</div>



<table border=1 style='margin: auto; word-wrap: break-word;'><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Setting</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Stage I</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Stage II</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Stage III</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">LR.</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Vision Head:  $ 10^{-4} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Vision Head:  $ 5 \times 10^{-5} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Vision Head:  $ 5 \times 10^{-5} $</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Sem-ViT:  $ 5 \times 10^{-5} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>LLM &amp; Sem-ViT:  $ 2 \times 10^{-5} $</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>LLM &amp; Sem-ViT:  $ 2 \times 10^{-5} $</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Image Size</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>448</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>448</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>448</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Batch Size</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1024</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1024</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1024</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Data Ratio</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0:1:3</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>0:2:2</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>1:2:2</td></tr><tr><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>Training Step</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>150K</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>100K</td><td style='text-align: center; word-wrap: break-word;'>20K</td></tr></table>

#### D.1. Ablation study training details

In our ablation studies, the evaluation covers three core capabilities with specific setups: (i) Multimodal Understanding: Following the LLaVA-1.5 training protocol (Liu et al., 2023a), we report the average score (Avg QA) across POPE (Li et al., 2023b), MMBench (Liu et al., 2024a), MMMU (Yue et al., 2024), AI2D (Kembhavi et al., 2016), and RealWorldQA. (ii) Image Generation: We adapt the Nitro-E framework (Shen et al., 2025) by replacing its VAE with our HYDRA-TOK. We train this setup for 15k iterations using the SAM-1B (Kirillov et al., 2023) and JourneyDB (Sun et al., 2023) datasets and evaluate performance on GenEval. (iii) Image Reconstruction: We train on the ImageNet-1k (1.2M) dataset (Russakovsky et al., 2014) for 150k iterations and assess quality using rFID.

#### D.2. Representation-harmonized co-promotion experiment training details

To validate the mutual benefits of our harmonized representation, we conducted comparative experiments on both generation and understanding tasks. For generation, we trained both Show-o2 and our HYDRA on the same 100M dataset for 150K steps, comparing the GenEval performance of joint training against a generation-only baseline across different training stages. For understanding, we performed Stage III training for 20K steps, comparing joint training with an understanding-only approach. We evaluated the models on general understanding (SEED-Bench), reasoning (MMStar, MMMU, MMBench, AI2D), and OCR-related tasks (OCRBench). Detailed settings for each benchmark are illustrated in Fig. 10.

#### D.3. Training data

##### D.3.1. IMAGE UNDERSTANDING

Stage I. For the initial pre-training stage, we utilized a massive dataset comprising approximately 22M images paired with captions. These data were sourced from a diverse collection of large-scale datasets, including ImageNet (Russakovsky et al., 2014), DataComp-1B (Gadre et al., 2023), COYO-700M (Byeon et al., 2022), SA-1B (Kirillov et al., 2023), and DenseFusion (Li et al., 2024c).

Stage II. In Stage II, we continued to utilize the comprehensive collection of data from the sources employed in Stage I (ImageNet (Russakovsky et al., 2014), DataComp-1B (Gadre et al., 2023), COYO-700M (Byeon et al., 2022), SA-1B (Kirillov et al., 2023), and DenseFusion (Li et al., 2024c)) for further training.